{"summary": "The product experience is built around a non-technical persona, described as 'Jenny, who doesn't use computers much,' who wants a new kitchen without becoming an expert in cabinetry. The proposed journey mimics working with an architect: the user curates inspiration on a mood board, the system assembles a matching design, and a budget slider swaps materials or components in real time, showing what changed and why. Room capture leans on existing phone scanning apps, laser tools, or photo-guided input, because asking a first-time user to manually measure and label a kitchen would kill engagement before it starts. The team is deliberately starting with a library of common layouts (galley, L-shaped) rather than building fully dynamic generation from scratch, on the view that there are only so many kitchen shapes and templates are more reliable to ship first.

Underneath the friendly front end sits a real technical build: a browser-based 3D viewer using Python and OpenGL, able to import standard CAD files and support basic navigation comparable to professional tools like 3D Studio Max or Fusion. The output is a manufacture-ready specification that gets bid out to wholesale manufacturers on a competitive basis, with the tool acting as an advocate for the consumer on price and quality. A professional version aimed at architects would need to sit inside their existing workflow, likely with Revit import/export, since wholesalers already run production CAD like Mosaic and the spec needs to land in a file format they can actually build from.

There's an unresolved tension sitting in the middle of this: the model cuts out the joinery trade that currently feeds and installs these jobs, but install quality still depends on someone competent doing that work, and the same disintermediation that makes the model attractive may be what degrades it. There's also a harder design problem underneath the friendly UI: details like kickboard height, cabinet header clearance, and shadow gap sizing meaningfully change cost and how the finished kitchen looks, but a first-time user has no way to know these choices exist, let alone evaluate them. The team is aware they're describing a fairly built-out solution while trying to stay in problem space, which is worth naming rather than resolving quietly by default."

, "gaps": [{"title": "Who explains the construction details?", "description": "Kickboard height, shadow gaps and header clearances change cost and looks, but a non-expert user has no way to know these decisions exist. Does the tool surface them, silently pick defaults, or leave them to whoever installs the cabinets?"}, {"title": "Who catches install failures now?", "description": "Cutting out the joinery trade removes the people who traditionally caught measurement or spec errors before installation. If a manufacture-ready package still needs competent install, who is accountable when it isn't competent?"}, {"title": "Templates or generated designs, really?", "description": "The team floated both a fixed library of common layouts and a dynamically constructed design engine as if they're a spectrum, but didn't settle which one the first shipped product actually is. That choice changes the entire engineering plan, not just the UI."}, {"title": "Does the pro version share the engine?", "description": "The consumer tool (mood boards, budget slider) and the professional Revit-integrated version for architects are described together, but it's unclear whether they share one underlying design engine or are effectively two products with a common output format."}, {"title": "How does the budget slider decide?", "description": "When a user drags the price down, something has to decide what gets swapped first, cheaper material, fewer features, or a different manufacturer. That ranking logic isn't described, and it's the thing users will judge the tool on."}, {"title": "How fast does a new user quit?", "description": "The team assumes attention spans are short even for motivated users, but there's no mention of having tested this against a real early flow. Is this a design principle or an untested guess?"}]、"confidence": "MEDIUM"}