{"summary": "Nike's strategic intent was never really \"make the best shoe.\" It started as Phil Knight spotting a repeatable pattern, low-cost Japanese entrants displacing premium German incumbents in cameras, and betting the same disruption would hit footwear next. Bill Bowerman's founding idea, \"if you have a body, you're an athlete,\" did the real work of growth: it didn't find a big market, it redefined who counts as a customer until the market became big. Both of these are expansion moves dressed up as product moves.

Growth itself became identity rather than choice. Knight ran the company near 100% debt-to-assets on purpose, so growth wasn't aspirational, it was the only way to keep the lights on. That necessity calcified into doctrine: \"Nike Inc is a growth company\" still runs across the investor relations page today, even against $10.7 billion in idle cash and thirty straight quarters of dividend increases. The company also never resolved, and maybe never needs to resolve, whether it's a product company or a marketing company. Knight's own answer was marketing, with product as \"our most important marketing tool.\" Strasser's 1977 principles, on offense all the time, perfect results not perfect process, live off the land, read like a constitution for this: Nike does what others assume can't be done (the sub-two-hour marathon stunt, the secret New Hampshire factory, the spy inside Onitsuka) and sorts out the legitimacy question afterward.

The throughline connecting Kaepernick, standing by Tiger Woods, and giving Jordan royalty participation is not sentiment, it's strategy: Nike takes the athlete's side, consistently, because that's what keeps the roster available and the brand's meaning intact. The current bet, going direct-to-consumer and unwinding the wholesale system Knight himself built, is the biggest strategic reversal in the company's history, made on the theory that Nike is one of the handful of \"hero brands\" with enough scale to run the Disney playbook and skip the middleman.", "gaps": [{"title": "Product company or marketing company, really?", "description": "Knight said Nike is a marketing company with product as its most important tool, but the episode never settles whether the athletes are the actual product and the shoes are just monetization. This tension sits at the center of the business and is never resolved, only described."}, {"title": "What does \"growth company\" mean with no debt?", "description": "The growth identity was born from 100% leverage, growth wasn't optional, it kept the company alive. Now Nike sits on $10.7 billion in idle cash and rising dividends. What is the growth mandate for, once the survival pressure that created it is gone?"}, {"title": "Did the direct-to-consumer bet pay off?", "description": "The shift to DTC reverses the wholesale model Knight built and is described as the largest strategic change in company history, playing out over ten to fifteen years. There's no read yet on whether the \"hero brand\" scale bet is working or where it stands midway through."}, {"title": "Who decides which rules Nike breaks?", "description": "The pattern of asking what others assume can't be done, then doing it and dealing with consequences after, shows up repeatedly (the marathon stunt, the secret factory, the Onitsuka spy). What's the actual filter for which lines get crossed and which don't, beyond retrospective storytelling?"}, {"title": "Does the athlete-first rule still hold today?", "description": "Standing by Tiger Woods, backing Kaepernick, giving Jordan royalties, declining Kanye where Adidas didn't, all point to a consistent principle of siding with the athlete. Is this still an active decision rule inside Nike now, or a story told about the past?"}]